---
title:  "Email and DNS"
mathjax: true
layout: post
categories: media
---

## Electronic Mail (Email)

The email has 3 main components:-
- 1. **User Agent**: The person who sends the email.
- 2. **Mail Server**: The server that receives the email.
- 3. **Protocols**: The protocols used to send/recieve emails. ie SMTP (sending), IMAP (recieve)

**SMTP** (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) is used to send emails. It is a text-based protocol that uses port 25. It is a client-server protocol, where the client sends the email and the server receives it. It has ports 25/587 and 25/2525 where 587 is secure version and 2525 is for SMTP over TLS.

**IMAP** (Internet Message Access Protocol) is used to recieve emails. It is a protocol that uses port 143. It is a client-server protocol, where the client sends the email and the server receives it. 143/993 is the safe port.

**MINE** (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) is used to send attachments with emails. It is a standard that extends the format of email messages to support text in character sets other than ASCII, as well as attachments of audio, video, images, and application programs.


### Full process: Alice sending Message to Bob:-

Put image


### Email transfers between different mail servers

Put image

Helo message: 

Total time = 3*RTT + File Transmission Time (from 1 mail server to another or like user to sender mail server, or senders mail server to recievers mail server)

But, note these messages can be asynchronously in SMTP etc unlike HTTP where end to end is in real time.

Patch: We the client keeps retrying and sending the data/request to the server. In case of problem, the mail will be kept in the server (usually till 2-4 hours).


## DNS (Domain Name System)

A very important protocol for the internet (has a lot of security issues). Mapping Ip addresses and URL names. 1 url -> 1 or more ip addresses. It is the phonebook of the internet.

It is a very loaded term and is made of 3 imp parts:-
- 1. Database distributed: How to store and build the map.
- 2. How to access this data: appl layer protocol
- 3. How is it going to be deployed and used: Infrastructure, where do i get the map from.

#### Working of dns

map google.com to an ip address, this map is stored somewhere. How to i get it? 

Here we use UDP protocol. connectionless. can also use TCP for DNS query but TCP has   . server port is 53.

Database structure:-

distributed db storing RR reource records, in a format:-

RR format: 
- 1. Name of the resource: google.com/ www.nslookup.io
- 2. value
- 2. Type of resource: A (category of data required)
- 3. Class of resource: IN
- 4. TTL: Time to live

Different types (40+ dns type records):-
- type A: IP address
    name is hostname, value is ip address
    example (wikipedia.org , 103.102.166.124, A, 499 )
- type NS: Name server
    name is hostname, value is another hostname

This is open for extension, but closed for modification. (Imp for scaling up)

Over billions website exist on the intenet.

Q) What is .com, .io, .in ? how are they given etc??



### Infrastructure view of DNS

Put image

DNS hirearchy:-

Eg: turing.iitgn.ac.in. (starts form back to front??)

Root (.)
Top level domains: com , org, edu
    - generic top level domains: .com, .org, .edu
    - country specific top level domains: .in, .us, .uk

Domain - Subdomain - Post , here turing.cs.iitgn.ac.in. . = root, in = top level domain, ac = subdomain, iitgn = subdomain, cs = subdomain, turing = domain name

URL size max for HTTP: 2048 bytes X, it is not specified by any standards.
URL size max for DNS: 256 chars. But why is this diff and both work??

urls are case-sensitive.

There are some valid domain name rules;-
- Compnent [a-z0-9] (a-z, 0-9, -)
- Not allowed symbols [.], [!]


### DNS: Root name servers
How to store and acess these:-

We go to top level, (.) then ask for (.com), then ask .com if there is (google), ... and so on this recursion keeps on happening.

13 authorities or root name servers (what do they do: ) but more than 200 replicas. NIXI has 54 servers in india.

TLDs (Top level domain) and authoritative servesrs: 
- responsible for .com, .org, etc 

gTLDS, ccTLDs: -

iitgn.ac.in has a dns server for ip main. Every domain/enterprise have authority over their ip, and can change it.

### DNS name resolution

DNS resolution:- It is a process of converting a domain name to an ip address. It is a two step process:-

put image

- Name resolution:-
    - It is a process of converting a domain name to an ip address.
- Address resolution:-
    - It is a process of converting an ip address to a hostname.

Iterative approach (mandatory) vs Recursive approach (optional):-



Q) Why do not directly send from final server to back to the requesting host ??  It is a security issue.? Not everything that seems is the same upon implementation.

DNS keeps a cache, and is the biggest cache in the world.


### DNS protocol

put image.

In a bit of detail.
query and reply messages are in message format. It has multiple flags.
Responce contains request (x byte) in it. and answer is y byte, then net = x+y byte. Why so? It is modeled to serve users without loss. 

This can 










### TODO

> (Understand difference between pipeling and parallel processing)

> (Sending email from terminal in linux)








